pr/13128 adds an example file to the maven archetype. 

It will be available in the 2.27 release, so once that is out we should update the quickstart to use it for the DirectRunner.

This issue is assigned but has not received an update in 30 days so it has been labeled "stale-assigned". If you are still working on the issue, please give an update and remove the label. If you are no longer working on the issue, please unassign so someone else may work on it. In 7 days the issue will be automatically unassigned.

Thanks jira bot - still waiting on the 2.27.0 release

This issue is assigned but has not received an update in 30 days so it has been labeled "stale-assigned". If you are still working on the issue, please give an update and remove the label. If you are no longer working on the issue, please unassign so someone else may work on it. In 7 days the issue will be automatically unassigned.

I will update this now.

Hm well it looks like pr/13128 didn't actually add sample.txt to the archetype. When I generated the archetype with 2.27.0 (which includes pr/13128) it only contains pom.xml and src, no sample.txt. So we need to do something else to make it part of the archetype. Unfortunately I don't have time to investigate this now.

Remaining actions here:
- Figure out how to make it so the generated archetype (using the command here: https://beam.apache.org/get-started/quickstart-java/#get-the-wordcount-code), includes sample.txt.
- Update the quickstart guide to use the sample.txt for the DirectRunner example.

https://github.com/apache/beam/pull/13918 should resolve item 1.

Once 2.29 is out we can update the Java quickstart.

This issue is assigned but has not received an update in 30 days so it has been labeled "stale-assigned". If you are still working on the issue, please give an update and remove the label. If you are no longer working on the issue, please unassign so someone else may work on it. In 7 days the issue will be automatically unassigned.

What is the status now? Asking because Fix Version is set and it does seem like this is related to 2.29.0

The code changes for this are complete, but we also want to update the Java quickstart to reflect the new changes.

Filed BEAM-11988 for the follow-up so we can close this.

