As mentioned I've time pressured works to do but when I've some spare time happy to come up w/ a consistent structure. If somebody picks it up in the meantime then just ping me in need, I know Kafka quite well...

Hi [~gaborgsomogyi] [~mapohl] I am new to the library and looking to make a contribution. Is this issue still open or is it fixed? 

This is still open but I don't think this is the jira you should start with("I am new to the library"). It's not only to move some lines here and there but to plan end-to-end Kafka test lifecycle (including broker docker debugging in failure, creating common base classes, defining topic lifecycle, making the tests less flaky, etc...). If you still think it fits to you then go ahead :)

Oh okay, I commented since it was mentioned with a starter label. I think I can handle it but first I will try to solve another Jira task to get used to the codebase/dev setup and come back to this. 

I added the "starter" label because I expected it to not be too much internal Flink knowledge necessary to reorganize the test classes. Feel free to remove the label if you disagree. You might have a better bigger picture on that topic. 

Flink internal knowledge is truly not needed. Additionally good to see motivated contributors so it's fine as-is :)

I am the [Flink Jira Bot|https://github.com/apache/flink-jira-bot/] and I help the community manage its development. I see this issues has been marked as Major but is unassigned and neither itself nor its Sub-Tasks have been updated for 60 days. I have gone ahead and added a "stale-major" to the issue". If this ticket is a Major, please either assign yourself or give an update. Afterwards, please remove the label or in 7 days the issue will be deprioritized.


This issue was labeled "stale-major" 7 days ago and has not received any updates so it is being deprioritized. If this ticket is actually Major, please raise the priority and ask a committer to assign you the issue or revive the public discussion.


