We should probably agree on a plan for how to merge these work into trunk. We can mark the windows-specific issues with [WINDOWS] prefix so that they are easily searchable. We can go with either of these:
 (1) recently agreed github repo approach
 (2) create a branch on apache svn, start committing there, and merge when done
 (3) commit patches to trunk as they are reviewed. 

I am up for (1), and (3). The only downside of (1) is that there might be multiple people involved, I am up for any suggestions that would make reviews more easy (not trying to recap the dev mailing list discussion here).

Up to you.  Going by what you've filed so far, patches seem small enough and pointed (except the millisecond issue).  Maybe 3. would be the way to go?

It'd be silly having a 'windows' component rather than WINDOWS prefix on issues?

bq. Up to you. Going by what you've filed so far, patches seem small enough and pointed (except the millisecond issue). Maybe 3. would be the way to go?
Agreed, let's start with 3, and if it becomes unmanageable, or hard to review, we can go to 1. 

bq. It'd be silly having a 'windows' component rather than WINDOWS prefix on issues?
At first, it seemed having a windows component made sense, but upon further thinking, there is no "component" for windows. Let's stick with prefix for now. I also use labels. 

We were able to get HBase working locally and the test passing (other than some flaky ones) for 0.94 and trunk under windows. I have uploaded the recent versions of the patches for most of the issues. I think at this point we can go on an start committing the patches to trunk once they are reviewed. There will be other patches later on, but we can work with them one-by-one. I think, once trunk is in a relatively good shape, and we have a final list of patches, we can then decide on whether to merge back into 0.94. 

For convenience here is a breakdown of the issues:
Patch availables:
HBASE-6816  (NR)
HBASE-6826  (R) ->v1 reviewed, v2 is a rebase
HBASE-6822  (R)
HBASE-6820  (R) 
HBASE-6823  (R) -> v1 reviewed, v2 is a rebase
HBASE-6827  (R)
HBASE-6828  (R) 
HBASE-6829  (NR) -> v3 not reviewed
HBASE-6831  (R)
HBASE-6832  (NR) -> v4 (timing issue)
HBASE-6830  (NR) -> v5 (pathing issue)
HBASE-6821  (NR) -> v2 
HBASE-6825  (NR) -> v3

Open issues with patches coming shortly:
HBASE-6815 (NR) -> there is a patch (not attached yet) for 0.94, to be ported to trunk.
HBASE-6818 (NR) -> (depends on scripts porting, trunk patch not tested yet)

Where
(R) indicates reviewed, (NR) is not reviewed. 

I'll apply all the PA patches above, and run the full suite of tests on my linux box to make sure that they are not breaking anything. 

It would be really helpful if you guys can take a look at (NR) issues, and leave a comment. Once we get all reviewed, I will commit them to trunk. Any suggestions are always welcome of course. 

