[~busbey] FYI.

we could do --fail-at-end and have things work normally. I don't think we can do --fail-never without also adding some logic to parse the surefire results to see if we should fail things.

a couple of other ways we could improve this:

* move off of the first / second group stuff so that within one module we don't fail to run the long tests because the short tests fail (I get why we do this for developers, but things are different in CI IMHO)
* we probably could configure our yetus personality to run individual modules for unit tests instead of running a top level build as it currently does.

if we did both of these we'd get a full run with failures accounted for even in the face of some things failing.

how often is this a problem though? the flaky test stuff should be puling out any tests that have failed previously, so it should only be that first run that stops in the middle.

I mean the nightly job, not the pre commit job...

In nightly job we will not pull out the flakey tests?

And there are lots of blank on the flakey dashboard

https://builds.apache.org/job/HBASE-Find-Flaky-Tests/job/master/lastSuccessfulBuild/artifact/dashboard.html

Maybe the problem is that we do not run these tests in nightly, or there are parsing errors?

I am talking about the nightly job. the nightly job does not run flakey tests. there's a different job that runs more frequently to run tests labeled as flaky.

blanks means that test didn't run. in general shortly after a red box on nightly you should start seeing blanks for that test, presuming the job to find flaky tests is still running.

one big gap on the current dashboard is that tests that have no failures aren't shown. tests that fail in nightly start showing blanks there once they're in the list, as we expect. but if they then don't fail at all in the job that just runs the flakey list you won't see them lower on the page where we have the results of the flakey job.

for example, TestHBaseTestingUtility. You can see it in the dashboard in the nightly list the one time it fails, but it isn't in the flaky job results on the dashboad.

if you go to the test result analyzer for the "run flaky tests" job:

https://builds.apache.org/job/HBase-Flaky-Tests/job/master/test_results_analyzer/

and search for "TestHBaseTestingUtility" you'll see that it's running and passing consistently.

OK, so now the logic is that, if a test fails in the nightly job, then it will be considered as flakey and excluded from the nightly job? And later we will add it back through the flakey job? Sounds fine.

But anyway, though we exclude the flakey tests, our nightly are still in trouble... It is really hard to get a successful run...

yes I have had that same experience on branch-1.2.

