Initially I suspected that the problem was related only to HTTPS instances, but further tests revealed that HTTP instances also suffer the same problem.

I was able to reproduce on Chrome, Firefox, IE8 on Windows and Chrome, Firefox on OSX.

So is AOD-4237 the same thing?

Related http://jira.atlassian.com/browse/JRA-24166 but says it only affects 4.3. However, http://jira.atlassian.com/browse/CWD-2386 is marked as a duplicate and is said to affect JIRA 4.2 when SSO is enabled.

I suspect it's a Crowd-related issue that began to affect JIRA 4.3 regardless of whether an external Crowd is used because of Embedded Crowd.

Perhaps related? http://bugs.sun.com/bugdatabase/view_bug.do?bug_id=6890023

Yes I think AOD-4237 is probably caused the same root cause.
I've tried to set the crowd.token.key to not be HttpOnly and still saw the same behavior so I'm not sure if it's related or maybe my test scenario was flaky, I was trying on Chrome on Windows.
Reading the comments on JRA-24166 I think this is basically the same problem, I was able to reproduce some of the xsrf token error messages.
I think is happening since JIRA 4.2 and Studio 2.4 as we have had a few supports requests that we weren't able to answer properly.

It may be an issue with the JSESSIONID key and not the Crowd one?

Hopefully this will be fixed in JIRA 4.3, which will be included in the next Studio upgrade in early May.

This is a real nuisance for my users as it disrupts their normal workflow of being able to go right to adding a screen shot in a problem report.  They must now save the clipboard to an image file and then attach the file.  

I vote to get this resolved quickly.  +It is a regression of expected functionality.+

Would like to add my two cents on this as the May updates did not fix the issue.  I would like to see it moved up the scale a bit.  It is a feature that my users have used in earlier versions and they are complaining that it is not available to them now.  thanks

We would also like to see this functionality return.  This is a frustrating enough issue that will affect our decision in continuing with this product.

Thanks!

If our tester/supporters didn't hate Jira enough all ready :) I'm also holding up my two hands on this one. Would it not be possible to use another technology than java on the screenshot functionality?  

That's not serious... Come On, This feature has been working for a long time.
You cannot just say that it is gone by mistake and you have no clue when it will be back!
And Studio users cannot afford a new release in 2-3 months!!! We're using this feature everyday.
Our customers are used to it and were using EVERYDAY.
We just need it back RUSH.

Thanks

This is a REGRESSION and should be treated as such. Please fix ASAP.

Re-tested & confirmed working on trunk / JIRA 4.3.3. This means that the fix will be in the very next Studio update. Sorry for the pain this has caused, and thanks again for your patience.

Now, here is the obvious question : When is 4.3.3 planned to be released for Jira Studio *HOSTED* users?

Thanks, Normand

Hi Normand, we are currently preparing the June release of Studio, which includes this fix. Our expectation is that it will reach users within the next few weeks.

Many thanks,
Robin

Is there an update on this?  The current Studio Version does not have this fix.

Timothy,

The new version, which contains this fix, is currently in the process of being rolled out across all JIRA Studio instances. You (or the designated technical contact for your company, if that's not you) should have gotten an email with details.

Thanks,
Tim Moore
Atlassian

